real-estate exploded to new heights
leading up to the financial crisis
property valuations look similar to the
dot-com boom and bust the catastrophic
losses which occurred were felt globally
from Nevada to Dubai after a short
correction in prices the boom continued
in certain areas Vancouver just one
example with prices rising so fast it
became completely uncontrollable so
what's happening now well you came here
for the truth
so let me unveil that for you we're
going to talk about Vancouver today when
I talk about real estate today we're
going to talk about China today and a
few other things let's get into it right
away
beginning with this there's you know
basically two articles that I want to
show you on this topic there's way too
much in it but let's see what I can
cover in this time the deep-pocketed
foreign real estate buyers that Coover
has become famous may be gone according
to the latest numbers foreign
transactions check this out so the
foreign transactions above three million
dollars are dropping fast
no foreign buyers didn't disappear
they're buying lower-priced units and it
has more to do with China than BC tax I
believe it is both actually but I'll get
into this foreign buyers looking for
Vancouver's luxury real estate declined
very fast according to the most recent
numbers the homes over 3 million
declined by a whopping 91% from the July
peak that's a huge decline in such a
short period of time only 8 luxury
properties are bought by foreign buyers
in November in case you're wondering
November's laugh at a point that was
published and it goes on saying December
is nothing to brag about either so let's
look at this just quickly this chart I
can resize it appropriately foreign
sales above three million you could see
exactly what has happened I mean yes it
did peak it was going up back but the
trend is clear so what's this all about
what are they talking about here well if
I move for
word along in this article it's not the
tax it was China now remember I'm not
agreeing with what they're saying but
let's take it for what it is we should
consider China's involvement before we
thank the BC government 2015 was one of
the largest years for up flows in China
and I believe this is key
and slowed with the February 2016
crackdown BC experienced a decline in
sales from that month on ok that's a
fact
they implemented the foreign buyers tax
of fifteen percent and immediately it
had a decline in sales at the fact
although prices continued to climb
capital then slowly poured out of China
until November when the State
Administration of foreign exchange
reported that foreign exchange reserves
approached three trillion mark the
psychological goes on new crack we're
looking at the bottom here new crackdown
occurred as this number approached which
reduced the outpour December saw only 41
billion leave the country 20 percent
lessen what the analysts are expecting
and in stop though the new restrictions
were further added to reduce foreign
exchange of capital last month so China
is engaging in capital controls right
now at this time they are doing so for
various reasons there is the you know
let's say surface level reasons or the
government wants to be able to not have
so much of the wealth leave they want
real estate to be purchased there they
don't want new projects to be opened up
in other places if the money would be
better suited in their own country at
the same time you have currency wars
which taking place and you want sort of
this vast amount of cash sometimes your
own currency to flow out of your country
in order to then purchase dollar so you
basically take your currency your
printing and printing and printing it
you can have a go overseas and then
those dollars our currency is then
converted into in this case dollars or
Canadian dollars whatever it might be so
that's one other side I believe it's
both
I do believe that the tax has an effect
as well as the capital controls have
another effect you can't just say it's
one or the other thing China's
escalating crackdown of capital up loads
ascending shudders through the property
markets around the world in London
Chinese citizens who climb were to
purchase flats at the city's tallest
apartment tower three months ago are
struggling to transfer their down
payments developers are facing big
problems the guys saying everything has
changed a finding it difficult to send
money offshore and this is a huge
problem because of everything that has
been going on we have seen the
restrictions that have been taking place
clearly having an effect immediately an
immediate effect not down the road less
than a month after China announced fresh
curbs on overseas payments anecdotal
reports from realtors and you know
sometimes the anecdotal reports are
better sometimes better than what we see
a fact in any court case in fact
sometimes this anecdotal evidence is
more reliable than witness testimony
that's also a fact anecdotal reports
from Realtors homeowners and developers
suggest the restrictions are already
weighing on the world's biggest real
estate buying spree one no one expects
Chinese demand to disappear in time soon
it's deterring the first-time buyers
with lack of offshore assets and the
expertise to script tighter capital
controls that's something that is
occurring at this time very clear very
obvious let's move on this Chinese
company is now C world largest
shareholder more acquisitions by Chinese
corporations into US and others
infrastructure they are buying up
companies they are buying up land and
farm and all sorts of different things
and it's not just
geographically you know focused area or
particular sectors
it's everything now in general I've said
this a hundred times before but I have
to explain it every time in general you
know there's nothing really bad about
that okay if somebody wants to buy
something you know these are so-called
capitalist environments where they
should be able to go in and buy what
they want and pay the fair share and
that's it however the problem is that a
lot of these corporations are run at
least indirectly by the state so when
you have governments buying up
corporations buying up infrastructure
and everything else of different
countries it gets a little sticky it's
not so black and white and you start to
run into this gray area and then
concerns later down the road what if the
countries go to war what if there's cold
war or tensions or anything else they
could begin to shut off these different
acquisitions that they've made over the
over the years that's what worries me
about all these accusations about
Hollywood look what's happening
obviously they are with the way that the
Chinese media is run it's even more
tightly controlled than what is in the
the West so you're not going to be able
to be critical in movies as if you are
already but that's being shut down as
well dangerous very dangerous this is
just a couple of things that I want to
show you here what do you think is the
currently most overcrowded trade that
would be by far long US dollar the US
dollar of course had taken a bit of a
hit over the months however you can see
here in this case it seems to be
definitely overcrowded I believe that's
because the world is looking for safety
cashing out the share of non-cash
transactions as a percentage of the
total volume of transactions okay that's
the x-axis so you can see here going in
this direction means basically there are
more people using
things other than cash and I will just
highlight in here this one right in
there okay so what we have you can't
read it
Finland Norway Denmark Sweden and Canada
all using the majority of their
transactions almost you know in Canada
for example it's above 80% and most of
them are as well that I selected of
non-cash transactions it's like you know
in Canada if you pull up cash or leaf in
Toronto the Apollo cash it's weird like
it it looks strange
that's how few people are using cash
these days and you know there's
obviously benefits there's obviously
negatives to it the negatives are very
very clear to me at least because they
can track all your purchases they can
monitor it and then they have this
ability to shut you off sure they choose
to and then the increase in the non-cash
transactions is on the WHI so that would
be you know how fast is this
accelerating and as far as I'm concerned
I mean when you get to this side anyway
like for example Canada I mean they're
all they're using non cash for a while
and you can see that in the normal in
Denmark Sweden they are rapidly
increasing in the amount of non cash and
I believe that this is all leading
towards the cashless society moving on
Barclays central bank policy forecast
normalization at different speeds in
different ways I'm not going to give any
opinion on this I just want to show you
I thought it was I've never seen a
diagram like this so I thought it would
be important to show you the different
central bank said the ECB the BOJ and
the BOE all have a different policy
right now and you can see that it's
showing you basically 2017 and onward
what the projections are that the
Federal Reserve for example and small
small small increments will be able to
raised interest rates it shows you how
much a percentage of GDP their balance
sheets are and you can see actually the
at least in these three here four
trillion dollars approximately in all
cases I find that just coincidental
that's all and just shows you some other
things if you're interested in the link
will be in the description below should
you juice Domino's will begin using
robots to deliver pizzas in Europe this
is something that is the trends the big
trend in fact that has been going on
where the objective is to take away the
monotonous and simple tasks from human
beings so that we can relax we can rest
and we can take it easy
however we sort of need this thing
called money in this world and if all of
the jobs even the low-paying service
jobs are being taken away by robots we
are in big trouble if you found this
video informative please give me a
thumbs up and last but not least if you
found the video informative I know
you'll find my books the money GPS and
global economic collapse even more
informative they have this look inside
feature at Amazon and it allows you to
flip through the pages of the book so
you can see if you like it take care if
you're still here I'm sure you're one of
the good fans one of the good
subscribers of my work I want to thank
all of you for all the positive comments
on the previous video I did a little
silly video I'm not going to do things
like that often but once in a while it's
good to just have a little fun that's
all thank you all for those comments
truly appreciate it another point I
wanted to make was that I am planning so
my plan was to create audiobooks of my
books
unfortunately because I'm
Canadian apparently I'm not allowed to
do that on Amazon so I'm looking around
for other options I'm just going to sell
them on my own website that's it so you
can go there you can pay with your
credit card or PayPal or whatever it's
also cured by PayPal and you'd be able
to go in there buy it directly from me
and then you know PayPal takes a little
small little cut and then you know I
would get the rest of the that and
that's just the way it's going to work I
don't want to have to do it that way
because of there's more complications
involved it's a website goes down if
this and that but apparently Amazon
hasn't opened up to the Canadian market
for audiobooks yet for whatever reason
so I'm just going around I'm just going
to do it myself
I'm going to record the audio books I'm
going to sell an mp3 on the website and
I hope that you appreciate that I'm also
going to create the PDF versions of both
of my books so if you want to buy them
directly from me if you're one of those
individuals that said look I don't want
to give a dime to Amazon well you can
then buy the PDF directly from my
website soon I'm going to set all this
up soon so I know a lot of people have
expressed the fact that they don't like
Amazon so you'll be able to do that
you'll be able to then basically give me
all the profits that are giving some of
these big corporations the profits it's
a PDF version which isn't as nice but
you know if you have some sort of you
know it may be on your phone or maybe on
your iPad or computer or whatever you
can read from there so that's that and
stay tuned for a lot more information a
lot of different things that I'm coming
out with just just stay tuned I know
you'll appreciate it thanks